blah
================

 We conduct a large scale data-driven analysis of the effects of online personal attacks on social media user activity. First, we perform a thorough overview of the literature on the influence of social media on user behavior, especially on the impact that negative and aggressive behaviors, such as harassment and cyberbullying, have on users’ engagement in online media platforms. The majority of previous research were small-scale self-reported studies, which is their limitation. This motivates our data-driven study. We perform a large-scale analysis of messages from Reddit, a discussion website, for a period of two weeks, involving 182,528 posts or comments to posts by 148,317 users. To efficiently collect and analyze the data we apply a high-precision personal attack detection technology. We analyze the obtained data from three perspectives: (i) classical statistical methods, (ii) Bayesian estimation, and (iii) model-theoretic analysis. The three perspectives agree: personal attacks decrease the victims’ activity. The results can be interpreted as an important signal to social media platforms and policy makers that leaving personal attacks unmoderated is quite likely to disengage the users and in effect depopulate the platform. On the other hand, application of cyberviolence detection technology in combination with various mitigation techniques could improve and strengthen the user community. As more of our lives is taking place online, keeping the virtual space inclusive for all users becomes an important problem which online media platforms need to face.

Remark. In what follows, we sometimes display key pieces of code and explain what it does. Some not too fascinating pieces of code are supressed, but the reader can look them up in the associated .Rmd file and compile their own version.

# Technology applied for personal attack detection

For the need of this research we define personal attack as any kind of abusive remark made in relation to a person (ad hominem) rather than to the content of the argument expressed by that person in a discussion. The definition of ‘personal attack’ subsumes the use of specific terms which compare other people to animals or objects or making nasty insinuations without providing evidence. Three examples of typical personal attacks are as follows.

-   *You are legit mentally retarded homie.*
-   *Eat a bag of dicks, fuckstick.*
-   *Fuck off with your sensitivity you douche.*

The detection of personal attacks was performed using Samurai, a proprietary technology of Samurai Labs.[1]

The following figure illustrates how the input text ("ccant believ he sad ur an id10+...!") is processed step-by-step utilizing both statistical and symbolic methods.

In practice, it means that a whole variety of constructions can be detected without the need to construct a fixed list of dictionary words defined . Due to utilizing symbolic components that oversee statistical components, {Samurai} recognizes complex linguistic phenomena (such as indirect speech, rhetorical figures or counter-factual expressions) to distinguish personal attacks from normal communication, greatly reducing the number of false alarms as compared to others systems used for violence detection. An example of comparison can be seen in Figure , and a full benchmark was presented in (Ptaszyński et al., 2018).

The detection models utilized in this research were designed to detect personal attacks targeted against a second person (e.g. interlocutor, original author of a post) and a third person/group (e.g., other participants in the conversation, people not involved in the conversation, social groups, professional groups), except public figures (e.g. politicians, celebrities). With regards to symbolic component of the system, by "models" we mean separate rules (such as, specifying a candidate for the presence of personal attack, such as the aggressive word "idiot," which is further disambiguated with a syntactic rule of citation, e.g., "\[he|she|they\] said \[SUBJECT\] \[PREDICATE\]") or sets of rules, as seen in Figure , e.g. normalization model contains rules for transcription normalization, citation detection model contains rules for citation, etc. With regards to the statistical component, by "models" refer to machine learning models trained on large data to classify an entry into one of the categories (e.g., true personal attack, or false positive).

Moreover, the symbolic component of the system uses two types of symbolic rules, namely "narrow rules" and "wide rules." The former have smaller coverage (e.g., are triggered less often), but detect messages containing personal attacks with high precision. The latter, have wider coverage, but their precision is lower. We decided to set apart the "narrow" and "wide" subgroups of the detection models in order to increase the granularity of the analysis. Firstly, we took only the detection models designed to detect personal attacks targeted against second person. Secondly, we used these models on a dataset of 320,000 Reddit comments collected on 2019/05/06. Thirdly, we randomly picked at most hundred returned results for each low-level model. Low-level models are responsible for detecting low-level categories. Similarly, mid-level models detect mid-level categories, by combining several low-level models, etc. (Some models are triggered very often while others rarely, so using all instances would create too much bias). There were 390 low-level models but many of them returned in less than 100 results. We verified them manually with the help of expert annotators trained in detection of personal attacks and selected only those models that achieved at least 90% of precision. The models with fewer than 100 returned results were excluded from the selection. After this step, the "narrow" subgroup contained 43 out of 390 low-level models. Finally, we tested all of the "narrow" models on a large dataset of 477,851 Reddit comments collected between 2019/06/01 and 2019/08/31 from two subreddits (r/MensRights and r/TooAfraidToAsk). Each result of the "narrow" models was verified manually by a trained annotator and the "narrow" models collectively achieved over 93.3% of precision. We also tested the rest of the "wide" models on random samples of 100 results for each model (from the previous dataset of 320,000 Reddit comments) and we excluded the models that achieved less than 80% precision. The models with fewer than 100 results were not excluded from the "wide" group. In this simple setup we detected 24,251 texts containing "wide" attacks, where:

The sum exceeds 100% because some of the comments contained personal attacks against both second person and third person / groups. For example, a comment \`\`Fu\*\* you a\*\*hole, you know that girls from this school are real bit\*\*es" contains both types of personal attack.

Additionally, from the original data of 320,000 Reddit posts we extracted and annotated 6,769 Reddit posts as either a personal attack (1) or not (0). To assure that the extracted additional dataset contains a percentage of Personal Attacks sufficient to perform the evaluation, the Reddit posts were extracted with an assumption that each post contains at least one word of a general negative connotation. Our dictionary of such words contains 6,412 instances, and includes a wide range of negative words, such as nouns (e.g., "racist", "death", "idiot", "hell"), verbs (e.g., "attack", "kill", "destroy", "suck"), adjectives (e.g., "old", "thick", "stupid", "sick"), or adverbs (e.g., "spitefully", "tragically", "disgustingly"). In the 6,769 additionally annotated Reddit samples there were 957 actual Personal Attacks (14%), from which Samurai correctly assigned 709 (true positives) and missed 248 (false negatives), which accounts for 74% of the Recall rate. Finally, we performed another additional experiment in which, we used Samurai to annotate completely new 10,000 samples from Discord messages that did not contain Personal Attacks but contained vulgar words. The messages were manually checked by two trained annotators and one additional super-annotator. The result of Samurai on this additional dataset was a 2% of false positive rate, with exactly 202 cases misclassified as personal attacks. This accounts for specificity rate of 98%.

The raw datasets used have been obtained by , who were able to collect posts and comments without moderation or comment removal. All content was downloaded from the data stream provided by which enabled full data dump from Reddit in real-time. The advantage of using it was access to unmoderated data. Further, deployed their personal attacks recognition algorithms to identify personal attacks.

In the study, experimental manipulation of the crucial independent variables (personal attacks of various form) to assess their effect on the dependent variable (users’ change in activity) would be unethical and against the goal of Samurai Labs, which is to detect and *prevent* online violence. While such a lack of control is a weakness as compared to typical experiments in psychology, our sample was both much larger and much more varied than the usual WEIRD (western, educated, and from industrialized, rich, and democratic countries) groups used in psychology. Notice, however, that the majority of Reddit users are based in U.S. For instance, (Wise, Hamman, & Thorson, 2006) examined 59 undergraduates from a political science class at a major Midwestern university in the USA, (Zong, Yang, & Bao, 2019) studied 251 students and faculty members from China who are users of WeChat, and (Valkenburg, Peter, & Schouten, 2006) surveyed 881 young users (10-19yo.) of a Dutch SNS called CU2.

Ptaszyński, M., Leliwa, G., Piech, M., & Smywiński-Pohl, A. (2018). Cyberbullying detection–technical report 2/2018, Department of Computer Science AGH, University of Science and Technology. *arXiv Preprint arXiv:1808.00926*.

Valkenburg, P. M., Peter, J., & Schouten, A. P. (2006). Friend networking sites and their relationship to adolescents’ well-being and social self-esteem. *CyberPsychology & Behavior*, *9*(5), 584–590. <https://doi.org/10.1089/cpb.2006.9.584>

Wise, K., Hamman, B., & Thorson, K. (2006). Moderation, response rate, and message interactivity: Features of online communities and their effects on intent to participate. *Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication*, *12*(1), 24–41. <https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1083-6101.2006.00313.x>

Wroczynski, M., & Leliwa, G. (2019). *System and method for detecting undesirable and potentially harmful online behavior*. Google Patents.

Zong, W., Yang, J., & Bao, Z. (2019). Social network fatigue affecting continuance intention of social networking services. *Data Technologies and Applications*. <https://doi.org/10.1108/dta-06-2018-0054>

[1] <https://www.samurailabs.ai/>, described in (Ptaszyński, Leliwa, Piech, & Smywiński-Pohl, 2018; Wroczynski & Leliwa, 2019).
